README.md, before:

NodeFinder
==========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/zxjsdp/NodeFinder.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/zxjsdp/NodeFinder)

Tools for node related operations in phylogenetic analyses

cali.py
-------

Do multiple calibrations at the most recent common ancestor node.

### Requirements

You need Python 2.7 or Python 3.x to run this script.

    python cali.py

Otherwise:

1. If you do not have Python environment in your computer;
2. Or if you only have Python 2.6 or older version;

please go to this web page and download the latest version of
**Single-File Stand-alone Python** 2.7 for Windows:

**Go to Webpage**: <http://www.orbitals.com/programs/pyexe.html>

**Directly Download**: <http://www.orbitals.com/programs/py.exe>

Then run this at command line:

    py.exe cali.py

### Usage

Put these three files:

1. `cali.py` (The main script);
2. `cali.ini` (Config file for cali.py);
3. `tree_file.nwk` (The Newick tree you want to do calibration).

in the same folder, then run this command in command line:

    python cali.py



### Config File Syntax (`cali.ini`):

    # Lines start with '#' will be ignored.

    # tree file name
    tree_file_name.nwk

    # calibrations
    name_a, name_b, calibration_infomation_1
    name_c, name_d, calibration_infomation_2
    ..., ..., ...



### Tips:

0. You want to run this program at Command Line or Windows cmd to see
   outcomes and **ERROR messages**;
1. Tree file should be **Newick** format file (Multi lines are accepted);
2. If first line is like this: `72  1`, it's OK;
3. Lines start with "`#`" will be ignored (Considered as comments);
4. Separate elements in each calibration line with '`,`';
5. Each calibration one line;
6. If calibration at specific node already exists, it will be replaced by
   new one;
7. A **new tree file** will be generated. Please check your working dir.



### For Example:

Say we have a tree file: "`test.nwk`":

    ((a ,((b, c), (d, e))), (f, g));

Run this command at command line:

    python cali.py

If no `cali.ini` file in current dir, after running the command, the program
will generate this config file and gives you informations like this:

    =====================================================
    [Config FILE Generated]:
        Please modify cali.ini and run this program again.
    =====================================================

    Usage:
        ...

    Example:
        ...

    Tips:
        ...

Modify `cali.ini`:

    # Comments will be ignored

    # Newick tree file name

    test.nwk

    # Calibrations
    # (calibration_info can be: >0.05<0.07, @0.144, >0.6, ...)
    # species_name_a, species_name_b, calibration_info

    # Add '>0.05<0.07' to the most recent common node of c and b
    c, b, >0.05<0.07
    a, e, >0.1<0.2
    c, f, >0.3<0.5

Run this command again at command line to do calibrations:

    python cali.py

Then we will get a new tree with calibration informations:

    ((((a, b), c)>0.05<0.07, (d, e))>0.1<0.2, (f, g))>0.3<0.5;

And a file named "`test.cali.nwk`" will be genereated.

PLEASE USE SOFTWARES LIKE TreeView TO CHECK THE OUTCOME!!

            +---------- a
            |
            | >0.1<0.2
        +---|       +-- b
        |   |   +---| >0.05<0.07
        |   |   |   +-- c
        |   +---|
        |       |   +-- d
        |       +---|
    ----|>0.3<0.5   +-- e
        |
        |           +-- f
        +-----------|
                    +-- g

### INFORMATIONs and WARNINGs after Running:

1. Tipical Outcome Information:

        [2]:  a, e, >0.1<0.2
        ----------------------------------------------------
        [Name A]:   a
        [Name B]:   e
        [ Cali ]:   >0.1<0.2
        [Insert]:   c)>0.05<0.07,(d,e))),(f,g));
        [Insert]:                    ->||<-
        ----------------------------------------------------

        # Comments:

        [2]: a, e, >0.1<0.2:
            This tells us the program is dealing with second calibration line now.

        [Insert]:
            This tells us which place to insert calibration in the Newick tree.

2. If calibration already exists at the node you want to add calibration,
   a WARNING will be given by the program: 

        [Calibration Exists]:           >0.1<0.2   [- Old]
        [Calibration Replaced By]:      >0.15<0.2  [+ New]

3. If two lines in your `cali.ini` file try to add calibration at the same
   node, a WARNING will be given by the program:

        !!! [Warning]   Duplicate calibration:
        [Exists]:   a, b, >0.1<0.2
        [ Now  ]:   a, c, >0.2<0.3

    And the last line of calibration will be the final calibration at this
    node.

Commit message:

Update README.md - docs for linux and MAC OS X

README.md, after:

NodeFinder
==========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/zxjsdp/NodeFinder.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/zxjsdp/NodeFinder)

Tools for node related operations in phylogenetic analyses

cali.py
-------

Do multiple calibrations at the most recent common ancestor node.

### Requirements

For Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X users:

You need Python 2.7 or Python 3.x to run this script.

    python cali.py

Otherwise, For Windows users:

1. If you do not have Python environment in your computer;
2. Or if you only have Python 2.6 or older version;

please go to this web page and download the latest version of
**Single-File Stand-alone Python** 2.7 for Windows:

**Go to Webpage**: <http://www.orbitals.com/programs/pyexe.html>

**Directly Download**: <http://www.orbitals.com/programs/py.exe>

Then run this at command line:

    py.exe cali.py

### Usage

Put these three files:

1. `cali.py` (The main script);
2. `cali.ini` (Config file for cali.py);
3. `tree_file.nwk` (The Newick tree you want to do calibration).

in the same folder, then run this command in command line:

    python cali.py



### Config File Syntax (`cali.ini`):

    # Lines start with '#' will be ignored.

    # tree file name
    tree_file_name.nwk

    # calibrations
    name_a, name_b, calibration_infomation_1
    name_c, name_d, calibration_infomation_2
    ..., ..., ...



### Tips:

0. You want to run this program at Command Line or Windows cmd to see
   outcomes and **ERROR messages**;
1. Tree file should be **Newick** format file (Multi lines are accepted);
2. If first line is like this: `72  1`, it's OK;
3. Lines start with "`#`" will be ignored (Considered as comments);
4. Separate elements in each calibration line with '`,`';
5. Each calibration one line;
6. If calibration at specific node already exists, it will be replaced by
   new one;
7. A **new tree file** will be generated. Please check your working dir.



### For Example:

Say we have a tree file: "`test.nwk`":

    ((a ,((b, c), (d, e))), (f, g));

Run this command at command line:

    python cali.py

If no `cali.ini` file in current dir, after running the command, the program
will generate this config file and gives you informations like this:

    =====================================================
    [Config FILE Generated]:
        Please modify cali.ini and run this program again.
    =====================================================

    Usage:
        ...

    Example:
        ...

    Tips:
        ...

Modify `cali.ini`:

    # Comments will be ignored

    # Newick tree file name

    test.nwk

    # Calibrations
    # (calibration_info can be: >0.05<0.07, @0.144, >0.6, ...)
    # species_name_a, species_name_b, calibration_info

    # Add '>0.05<0.07' to the most recent common node of c and b
    c, b, >0.05<0.07
    a, e, >0.1<0.2
    c, f, >0.3<0.5

Run this command again at command line to do calibrations:

    python cali.py

Then we will get a new tree with calibration informations:

    ((((a, b), c)>0.05<0.07, (d, e))>0.1<0.2, (f, g))>0.3<0.5;

And a file named "`test.cali.nwk`" will be genereated.

PLEASE USE SOFTWARES LIKE TreeView TO CHECK THE OUTCOME!!

            +---------- a
            |
            | >0.1<0.2
        +---|       +-- b
        |   |   +---| >0.05<0.07
        |   |   |   +-- c
        |   +---|
        |       |   +-- d
        |       +---|
    ----|>0.3<0.5   +-- e
        |
        |           +-- f
        +-----------|
                    +-- g

### INFORMATIONs and WARNINGs after Running:

1. Tipical Outcome Information:

        [2]:  a, e, >0.1<0.2
        ----------------------------------------------------
        [Name A]:   a
        [Name B]:   e
        [ Cali ]:   >0.1<0.2
        [Insert]:   c)>0.05<0.07,(d,e))),(f,g));
        [Insert]:                    ->||<-
        ----------------------------------------------------

        # Comments:

        [2]: a, e, >0.1<0.2:
            This tells us the program is dealing with second calibration line now.

        [Insert]:
            This tells us which place to insert calibration in the Newick tree.

2. If calibration already exists at the node you want to add calibration,
   a WARNING will be given by the program: 

        [Calibration Exists]:           >0.1<0.2   [- Old]
        [Calibration Replaced By]:      >0.15<0.2  [+ New]

3. If two lines in your `cali.ini` file try to add calibration at the same
   node, a WARNING will be given by the program:

        !!! [Warning]   Duplicate calibration:
        [Exists]:   a, b, >0.1<0.2
        [ Now  ]:   a, c, >0.2<0.3

    And the last line of calibration will be the final calibration at this
    node.
